---
title: Installing contentjet on Ubuntu 16.04
layout: guide.ejs
---
# Installing contentjet on Ubuntu 16.04

Contentjet is a free opensource headless content management system. The contentjet codebase is composed of 2 separate projects
_contentjet-api_, a Node.js based RESTful API application and _contentjet-ui_ a
React based single page application (SPA).

In this guide we will learn how to install contentjet on a fresh installation
of [Ubuntu 16.04](https://www.ubuntu.com/) on a single host. We will install [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) for our database and run our app behind an [NGINX](https://nginx.org/en/) reverse proxy secured with free certificates generated by [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).

To complete the steps in this guide you must comfortable with the linux command line including the opening and editing of files and be familiar with connecting to remote machines over SSH. This guide also assumes you have registered a domain name you wish to use with this installation.

## 0. Create system user

Begin by creating a new system user. You will be prompted to enter a password.

```
adduser contentjet
```

Add our new user to the sudo user group.

```
usermod -aG sudo contentjet
```

## 1. Install dependencies

#### Add apt repository for Node 8

```
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_8.x | sudo -E bash
```

#### Update package lists

```
sudo apt-get update -y
```

#### Install required dependencies

```
sudo apt-get install nginx postgresql postgresql-contrib build-essential nodejs -y
```

## 2. Configure PostgreSQL

#### Edit postgres configuration

We must make a slight change to the default PostgreSQL configuration so contentjet-api can connect to it.

```
nano /etc/postgresql/9.5/main/pg_hba.conf
```

Change from:

```
# IPv4 local connections:
host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            md5
```

To:

```
# IPv4 local connections:
host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            trust
```

Save the changes to this file and reload PostgreSQL.

```
systemctl reload postgresql
```

#### Create database

Switch to the postgres user.

```
su postgres
```

Create a new database user. You will be prompted to set a password. _Be sure to make note of this username and password as you will need it in a future step._

```
createuser -W contentjet
```

Create a new database database named `contentjet-api` specifiying the user created in the previous step as the owner.

```
createdb -O contentjet contentjet-api
```

Press `Control + d` to exit from the `postgres` user's shell and return to the `root` user's shell.

## Install & configure contentjet-api

#### Clone repository

Create a new directory and make our `contentjet` user the owner.

```
mkdir -p /var/www/contentjet
chown contentjet:contentjet /var/www/contentjet
```

Switch to our `contentjet` user.

```
su contentjet
```

Clone the `contentjet-api` and `contentjet-ui` repositories.

```
cd /var/www/contentjet
git clone https://github.com/contentjet/contentjet-api.git
git clone https://github.com/contentjet/contentjet-ui.git
```

#### Install application dependencies

```
cd contentjet-api
npm install --production
```

#### Edit config

In this step we will edit our configuration file to add our database and mail settings.

`nano config/config.production.js`

Under the `DATABASE` key you must set the `user` and `password` values to those you created in the **Create database** step above.

**TODO Add mail config instructions**

#### Migrate database

To create the required tables in our database run the `migrate` command.

```
NODE_ENV=production npm run migrate
```

#### Create admin user

Create a contentjet administrator user. Once the app is running you will login with this user via the UI.

```
npm run create-admin-user
```

```
pm2 startup ubuntu -u contentjet --hp /home/contentjet
```

```
NODE_ENV=production pm2 start /var/www/contentjet/contentjet-api/server.js -i max
```

## Configure NGINX

TODO
